---
layout: leetcode
index: 355
title: Design Twitter
problem: design-twitter
mathjax: true
---
relevant: system design of twitter
## Problem Clarification
Design a simplified version of Twitter with methods:
* `postTweet(userId, tweetId)`: here `tweetId` is not necessarily incremental
* `follow(followerId, followeeId)`
* `unfollow(followerId, followeeId)`
* `getNewsFeed(userId)`: Retrieve the **10** most recent tweet ids (**ordered** from most recent to least recent) posted by the user **and** his/her followees.

## Analysis
* User follow-relationship: dictionary of sets `{followerId: {followeeIds}}`
* Tweet Logs:
  1. Log the tweets sequentially in a single list. When retrieve the news feed, loop through the list from the end and filter by the poster's userId -- time complexity $O(N)$, $N$ is the total number of tweets.
  2. Log the tweets separately by the poster's userId, and add a timer to record the sequence of tweets. When retrieve the news feed, just loop throught the lists of relevant posters -- time complexity $O(K\log{M})$, where $K$ is 10 here, $\log{M}$ comes from merging $M$ sorted lists using the heap queue algorithm.

## Code
code example from [https://leetcode.com/problems/design-twitter/discuss/82863/Python-solution]()
```python
class Twitter(object):

    def __init__(self):
        self.timer = itertools.count(step=-1)
        self.tweets = collections.defaultdict(collections.deque)
        self.followees = collections.defaultdict(set)

    def postTweet(self, userId, tweetId):
        self.tweets[userId].appendleft((next(self.timer), tweetId))

    def getNewsFeed(self, userId):
        tweets = heapq.merge(*(self.tweets[u] for u in self.followees[userId] | {userId}))
        return [t for _, t in itertools.islice(tweets, 10)]

    def follow(self, followerId, followeeId):
        self.followees[followerId].add(followeeId)

    def unfollow(self, followerId, followeeId):
        self.followees[followerId].discard(followeeId)
```

### Implementation tricks
* `itertools.count(start=0, step=1)`: iterator that returns evenly spaced values starting with number *start*.
* `collections.defaultdict([default_factory[, ...]])`: `dict` subclass that calls a factory function to supply missing values. When calling `__getitem__()` method of the `dict` class and the requested key is not found, `default_factory()` is called to provide a default value for the key.
* `collections.deque([iterable[, maxlen]])`: double-ended queue, list-like container with fast appends and pops on either end. `list` objects incur $O(n)$ memory movement costs for pop(0) and insert(0, v), while `deque` objects support thread-safe, memory efficient appends and pops with approximately the same $O(1)$ performance in either direction.
* `set`: `remove(elem)` raises `KeyError` if *elem* is not contained in the set, while `discard(elem)` removes *elem* only when it is present. `union(*others)` is equivalent to `set | other`.
* `heapq.merge(*iterables, key=None, reverse=False)`: Merge multiple **sorted** inputs into a single sorted output. Returns an **iterator** over the sorted values. Similar to `sorted(itertools.chain(*iterables)` but does not pull the data into memory all at once.
* `itertools.islice(iterable, stop)`: similar to regular slicing `list[:10]` (except that `islice` does not support negative values). However we cannot use regular slicing here, since `heapq.merge` return a generator and generator object is not subscriptable. 

### Edge Test Cases
1. follow self. wrong: `list(self.followees[userId]) + [userId]`; right: `self.followee[userId] | {userId}`

       Input: ["Twitter","postTweet","follow","getNewsFeed"]
               [[],[1,5],[1,1],[1]]
       Output: wrong: [null,null,null,[5,5]]
                right: [null,null,null,[5]]

2. more than 10 tweets in total

       Input: ["Twitter","postTweet","postTweet","postTweet","postTweet","postTweet","postTweet","postTweet","postTweet","postTweet","postTweet","postTweet","getNewsFeed"]
               [[],[1,5],[1,3],[1,101],[1,13],[1,10],[1,2],[1,94],[1,505],[1,333],[1,22],[1,11],[1]]
       Output: wrong: [null,null,null,null,null,null,null,null,null,null,null,null,[11,22,333,505,94,2,10,13,101,3,5]]
               right: [null,null,null,null,null,null,null,null,null,null,null,null,[11,22,333,505,94,2,10,13,101,3]]
